docs/src/config.md, before:

# Configuration

Always put `mdpo` plugin in `mkdocs.yml` file after other plugins which could
edit the content of your files:

```yaml
- plugins
  - search
  - include-markdown
  - mdpo
  - minify
```

## Languages

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`languages`** (*list*)\*

Languages to translate your files into. Commonly defined as
[ISO 639 codes][iso-369].

!!! note

    If you are using [mkdocs-material][mkdocs-material] theme, can also be
    defined in the `extra.alternate` configuration setting (see
    [Site language selector][mkdocs-material-site-language-selector]).

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`default_language`** (*str*)

Original language of your files. If not defined, the first language found in
[`languages`](#languages-list) will be used.

!!! note

    If you are using [mkdocs-material][mkdocs-material] theme, can also be
    defined in the `theme.language` configuration setting (see
    [Site language][mkdocs-material-site-language]).

## Layout

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`locale_dir`** (*str*)

Directory where the PO translation files will be placed. If not defined,
the root of your documentation (`docs_dir` setting) will be used,
which will not allow you to use the command `mkdocs serve`. The default
layout would be something like:

=== "Configuration"

    ```yaml
    plugins:
      - mdpo:
          languages:
            - en
            - es
            - fr
    ```

=== "Documentation directories tree"

    ```
    docs
    ├── es
    │   └── index.md.po
    ├── fr
    │   └── index.md.po
    └── index.md
    ```

The problem with this layout is that doesn't allow you to use the
command `mkdocs serve`.

The recommended practice is to organize your tipical `docs/` directory
with multiple subdirectories, one for documentation files, other for
translation files, other for theme overrides...

=== "Configuration"

    ```yaml
    docs_dir: docs/src

    plugins:
      - mdpo:
          languages:
            - en
            - es
            - fr
          locale_dir: ../locale
    ```

=== "Documentation directories tree"

    ```
    docs
    ├── locale
    │   ├── es
    │   │   └── index.md.po
    │   └── fr
    │       └── index.md.po
    └── src
        └── index.md
    ```

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`lc_messages`** (*bool* or *str*)

In the world of program translation is common the creation of a `LC_MESSAGES/`
folder inside the language directory. If you need it you can set this setting
as `true`, but if you want another folder name, you can pass a string, or even
a relative path to create more than one folder between the language directory
and their content:

=== "true"

    === "Configuration"

        ```yaml
        plugins:
          - mdpo:
              languages:
                - en
                - es
                - fr
              locale_dir: locale
              lc_messages: true
        ```

    === "Documentation directories tree"

        ```
        docs
        ├── locale
        │   ├── es
        │   │   └── LC_MESSAGES
        |   │       └── index.md.po
        |   └── fr
        |       └── LC_MESSAGES
        │           └── index.md.po
        └── index.md
        ```

=== "Custom value"

    === "Configuration"

        ```yaml
        plugins:
          - mdpo:
              languages:
                - en
                - es
                - fr
              locale_dir: locales
              lc_messages: my-own/subdir
        ```

    === "Documentation directories tree"

        ```
        docs
        ├── locales
        │   ├── es
        │   │   └── my-own
        |   │       └── subdir
        |   |           └── index.md.po
        |   └── fr
        |       └── my-own
        │           └── subdir
        |               └── index.md.po
        └── index.md
        ```

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`dest_filename_template`** (*str*)

Template for destination file name inside `site/` directory. This is a valid
[Jinja2 template][jinja2-template] string that will be used to define where
should be placed the generated translated file inside the `site/` directory.

The default value is `{{language}}/{{file.dest_path}}`, being `file` the
original documentation file and `language` the language of the translation.

The context for the template includes:

- `language`: Translation language for the file.
- `file`: The original Markdown file object inside your documentation directory.
- All the configuration settings of the plugin such as `languages`,
  `default_language`, `lc_messages`, `locale_dir`, `dest_filename_template`
  itself...

## Content

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`cross_language_search`** (*bool*)

It configures if the search plugin of the theme will search through all
languages. By default is enabled. You can disable it to restrict the search
to the active language.

The support for this feature currently includes the [mkdocs-material] theme,
the Mkdocs theme, the Readthedocs theme and all themes which are using the builtin
Mkdocs search plugin.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`min_translated_messages`** (*str* or *int*)

Minimum number or percentage of messages in all files to include the
translated pages for a language. An information message will be displayed
if a language does not reach the minimum translation requirements.

Specify as a string ending with `%` like `55%` for percentages of
total messages or as an integer like `76` to determine the minimum
number of translated messages required to include a language.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`ignore_extensions`** (*list*)

File extensions that are ignored from being added to site directory, defaults to
`['.po', '.pot', '.mo']`.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`ignore_msgids`** (*list*)

You can ignore certain messages from being dumped into PO files adding them to
this list.

[iso-369]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639
[mkdocs-material]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material
[mkdocs-material-site-language]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/changing-the-language/#site-language
[mkdocs-material-site-language-selector]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/changing-the-language/#site-language-selector
[jinja2-template]: https://jinja2docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/templates.html
[polib.POFile]: https://polib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#polib.POFile

Commit message:

Add `exclude` config setting to exclude files from being translated (#37)
* Add config setting to exclude files from being translated

docs/src/config.md, after:

# Configuration

Always put `mdpo` plugin in `mkdocs.yml` file after other plugins which could
edit the content of your files:

```yaml
- plugins
  - search
  - include-markdown
  - mdpo
  - minify
```

## Languages

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`languages`** (*list*)\*

Languages to translate your files into. Commonly defined as
[ISO 639 codes][iso-369].

!!! note

    If you are using [mkdocs-material][mkdocs-material] theme, can also be
    defined in the `extra.alternate` configuration setting (see
    [Site language selector][mkdocs-material-site-language-selector]).

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`default_language`** (*str*)

Original language of your files. If not defined, the first language found in
[`languages`](#languages-list) will be used.

!!! note

    If you are using [mkdocs-material][mkdocs-material] theme, can also be
    defined in the `theme.language` configuration setting (see
    [Site language][mkdocs-material-site-language]).

## Layout

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`locale_dir`** (*str*)

Directory where the PO translation files will be placed. If not defined,
the root of your documentation (`docs_dir` setting) will be used,
which will not allow you to use the command `mkdocs serve`. The default
layout would be something like:

=== "Configuration"

    ```yaml
    plugins:
      - mdpo:
          languages:
            - en
            - es
            - fr
    ```

=== "Documentation directories tree"

    ```
    docs
    ├── es
    │   └── index.md.po
    ├── fr
    │   └── index.md.po
    └── index.md
    ```

The problem with this layout is that doesn't allow you to use the
command `mkdocs serve`.

The recommended practice is to organize your tipical `docs/` directory
with multiple subdirectories, one for documentation files, other for
translation files, other for theme overrides...

=== "Configuration"

    ```yaml
    docs_dir: docs/src

    plugins:
      - mdpo:
          languages:
            - en
            - es
            - fr
          locale_dir: ../locale
    ```

=== "Documentation directories tree"

    ```
    docs
    ├── locale
    │   ├── es
    │   │   └── index.md.po
    │   └── fr
    │       └── index.md.po
    └── src
        └── index.md
    ```

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`lc_messages`** (*bool* or *str*)

In the world of program translation is common the creation of a `LC_MESSAGES/`
folder inside the language directory. If you need it you can set this setting
as `true`, but if you want another folder name, you can pass a string, or even
a relative path to create more than one folder between the language directory
and their content:

=== "true"

    === "Configuration"

        ```yaml
        plugins:
          - mdpo:
              languages:
                - en
                - es
                - fr
              locale_dir: locale
              lc_messages: true
        ```

    === "Documentation directories tree"

        ```
        docs
        ├── locale
        │   ├── es
        │   │   └── LC_MESSAGES
        |   │       └── index.md.po
        |   └── fr
        |       └── LC_MESSAGES
        │           └── index.md.po
        └── index.md
        ```

=== "Custom value"

    === "Configuration"

        ```yaml
        plugins:
          - mdpo:
              languages:
                - en
                - es
                - fr
              locale_dir: locales
              lc_messages: my-own/subdir
        ```

    === "Documentation directories tree"

        ```
        docs
        ├── locales
        │   ├── es
        │   │   └── my-own
        |   │       └── subdir
        |   |           └── index.md.po
        |   └── fr
        |       └── my-own
        │           └── subdir
        |               └── index.md.po
        └── index.md
        ```

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`dest_filename_template`** (*str*)

Template for destination file name inside `site/` directory. This is a valid
[Jinja2 template][jinja2-template] string that will be used to define where
should be placed the generated translated file inside the `site/` directory.

The default value is `{{language}}/{{file.dest_path}}`, being `file` the
original documentation file and `language` the language of the translation.

The context for the template includes:

- `language`: Translation language for the file.
- `file`: The original Markdown file object inside your documentation directory.
- All the configuration settings of the plugin such as `languages`,
  `default_language`, `lc_messages`, `locale_dir`, `dest_filename_template`
  itself...

## Content

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`cross_language_search`** (*bool*)

It configures if the search plugin of the theme will search through all
languages. By default is enabled. You can disable it to restrict the search
to the active language.

The support for this feature currently includes the [mkdocs-material] theme,
the Mkdocs theme, the Readthedocs theme and all themes which are using the builtin
Mkdocs search plugin.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`min_translated_messages`** (*str* or *int*)

Minimum number or percentage of messages in all files to include the
translated pages for a language. An information message will be displayed
if a language does not reach the minimum translation requirements.

Specify as a string ending with `%` like `55%` for percentages of
total messages or as an integer like `76` to determine the minimum
number of translated messages required to include a language.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`exclude`** (*list[str]*)

Exclude certain files from being translated, still creating copies of
original ones in target languages. Accepts relative paths to files from
`docs_dir` (documentation directory).

This setting is useful if you want, for example, to exclude a changelog
file from being translated.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`ignore_extensions`** (*list[str]*)

File extensions that are ignored from being added to site directory, defaults to
`['.po', '.pot', '.mo']`.

<!-- mdpo-disable-next-line -->
### **`ignore_msgids`** (*list[str]*)

You can ignore certain messages from being dumped into PO files adding them to
this list.

[iso-369]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639
[mkdocs-material]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material
[mkdocs-material-site-language]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/changing-the-language/#site-language
[mkdocs-material-site-language-selector]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/changing-the-language/#site-language-selector
[jinja2-template]: https://jinja2docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/templates.html
[polib.POFile]: https://polib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#polib.POFile
